When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work
local?

When you your files and commit history to be available to users, for example when collaborating with others.

Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?
When you are cloning a repository from Github onto Github, you do that using Github’s built in fork feature. It can be used when you want to copy someone else’s repository onto your own account, and when you want this repository to be available to others. Cloning involves taking an existing repository and making one just like it, where the original repository could either be remote (github to local machine) or local (local to local). This is done when you want to make bigger changes to a file, such as code changes, which is not easily done on Github. Branching is done within your repository on your local machine to, for example, test out experimental changes. This can be useful when you only want to push certain commits/changes to your public Github account.

What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?

It allows you to keep track of the state of the remote repository while you work on your branch locally. It then also makes it easier to merge your own commits with the remote repository.

How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?

You would probably have to make changes to your file and send it to the person collaborating with you with a note describing the changes. It would be easier in that you both don’t have to understand git and how GitHub works but more difficult in that you have to keep sharing entire files and searching for changes - which may be hard to find.

When would you want to make changes in a separate branch rather than directly in master? What benefits does each approach have?

Branches work well for experimentation and when you want to share changes on Github but do not want these changes to affect the main branch yet, i.e. you want to get feedback from the person collaboration with you before making changes to master.